the a counter role at a Toast Masters
meeting is in my opinion one of the most
important roles there is however let's
be honest it's also one of the most
boring roles to take on or at least so
it seems that way but in today's video I
am going to show you how to deliver an a
counter report that is not boring so
let's start off with why the a counter
is so
important um the reason uh for this is
that
um uh when we when we talk in front of a
group um there's
uh there's sometimes pressure to um to
come up with the right words to say and
when you have all of those us ums filler
words in between your sentence it is
distracting to the audience what we find
is that replacing those filler or crutch
words with silence allows the speakers
to come across as much more professional
much more polished so the role of the a
counter is to listen intently throughout
the entire meeting and then give
feedback to each member of the
Toastmasters Club on what crutch or
filler words that they said because the
more we know which crutch words we use
the quicker we will notice it when we
are speaking and the better we will get
at removing those words or sounds from
our speech but here's the problem in so
many a counter reports that I've seen it
looks the exact same the a counter comes
to the front of the room and says
Okay Sophia you had two
ums Charlene you had three sees two
butts and one
an sue you had two double starts three
ums two uh boring am I right a report
like that is not exciting to listen to
and while the information is valuable
it's hard to pay attention we only
really pay attention when it's our own
name called and we're not listening to
the rest of the report because it's not
engaging it's not entertaining but in
this video I'm going to show you a live
example of me taking on the a counter
rule but also incorporating the theme of
the day and making it more more
interesting to listen to so let's watch
it together let's watch me taking on the
a counter role and then I'm going to
stop the video in a couple spots and
give you my
feedback I love the a counter role
because the elimination of filler words
in our speeches is the quickest way to
appear professional when speaking and I
certainly adored Wendy's ability to get
through the entire meeting as
Toastmaster with one so
all right stopping it there there was a
gasp some Applause a couple things first
off you may have noticed the theme of
that meeting might have thought it had
to do with love it was Valentine's Day
in this role I really wanted to
incorporate that theme I started off by
saying I love the a counter role and
explained why and then I said I adored
Wendy's ability to only use one SE
throughout the meeting and that's when
people started clapping the thing I
didn't anticipate is that there' be
clapping in between almost every single
thing that I say at this all counter
rule you'll notice that it might be a
little distracting that's not typical
but I think it's because I had a bit of
a different spin in this meeting keep
your ear out for those theme words that
relate to Valentine's Day cuz that's how
I was trying to keep this report
interesting as well as providing a lot
of energy okay let's watch the
rest Patricia's toast sparked three so
Margaret showcased a bouquet of a ands
and
S I admired Sophia's ability to have a
Flawless humorous
role my voracious report for Chris
includes five us and five ums voracious
isn't really a word related to Valentine
day but it was the word of the day
that's why I tried to sneak it in
Charlene nearly embraced Perfection with
only one um in her first
speech Pablo's Treasured Memories
included zero filler
[Applause]
words Sue's passionate questions did not
have any filler words
either I was over the moon with
Samantha's ability to use use only one
um again over the moon isn't really
related to Valentine's Day but her TBL
topics answer had to do with mooning
somebody as a truth or dare so I thought
the over the moon was a clever take over
the moon Keithan Morgan both liked the
word um ait's answer was a quickie but
it had no filler
words Cupid's arrow hit the bullseye of
perfection on Kim's answer zero filler
words
Dan yearned for Perfection but had one
uh toward the end I cherished Andy's
evaluation devoid of any crutch words
and Moya gifted us with a perfect table
topics evaluation well done
everyone okay so that was my a counter
taking on the a counter rooll the thing
you may have noticed is I I did have my
head buried in my notes a little bit
because I wanted to ensure that I was
using the correct word and keeping them
different each time if you're wondering
by the way what my notes looked like for
this section oh you can probably not
read anything there it's it's quite
messy how I write but on the leftand
column this was my preparation for the
meeting is I had written a bunch of
Valentine's syn synonyms so words
related to Valentine's Day and then
throughout as I was doing my report I
was making note of what filler words
were used but I was also trying to bring
in a unique Valentine's Day related word
and build those sentences this takes a
little bit of extra effort if it's your
first time taking on the a counter rooll
my suggestion is to not try to do this
Advanced technique I have another video
which is the basics on taking on the a
counter rle so start there but this is
for my Toastmaster who want to make it a
little bit more interesting take it to
the next level therefore Not only was I
listening for the filler words but I was
also attempting to incorporate these
Valentine's Day related words so having
my head buried in the notes wasn't ideal
but I think what allowed this to be more
exciting than normal was the enthusiasm
coming up there with a lot of energy
this is the ask for all of you taking on
the a counter even if it's a basic
report where you're simply going to say
the Club Member's name and how many
filler words for those club members who
had a great meeting perhaps they used
fewer filler words than typical get your
voice louder let the club know wow Susie
only used two words I have seen huge
Improvement out of Susie way to go Susie
it gets the energy going it may even get
the audience clapping as well as you
heard a few times through that video I
hope this quick example video gives you
some fresh fresh ideas of how you can
make the a counter role unique and
interesting my YouTube channel is all
about helping to make you a better
Communicator a better Toastmaster and a
more confident public speaker I have a
course I launched a while ago on public
speaking I'll link to that in the show
notes but also I've been working with
some individuals on a one-to-one basis
with the goal of helping them improve
their public speaking skills if this is
something you're interest Ed in send me
an email my email is in the show note I
am happy to have a consultation call
with you and discuss how we can take
your public speaking skills to the next
level if you haven't already subscribed
please subscribe to my channel thank you
so much for taking the time to watch
this video I'll see you on the next one